Configuration of SMS schedules (#67)
medic/medic-docs: configuration/app-settings.md

|`messages[].offset`| Time interval from the `start_from` date for when the message should be sent. It is structured as a string with an integer value followed by a space and the time unit. For instance `8 weeks` or `2 days`. The units available are `seconds`, `minutes`, `hours`, `days`, `weeks`, `months`, `years`, and their singular forms as well. Note that although you can specify `seconds`, the accuracy of the sending time will be determined by delays in the processing the message on the server and on the gateway.|yes|
|`messages[].send_day`| String value of the day of the week on which the message should be sent. For instance, to send a message at the beginning of the week setting it to `"Monday"` will make sure the message goes out on the closest Monday _after_ the `start_date` + `offset`. `|no|
|`messages[].send_time`| Time of day that the message should be sent in 24 hour format.|no|

> |`messages[].recipient`| Recipient of the message. It can be set to `reporting_unit` (sender of the form), 'clinic' (clinic that the sender of the form is attached to), 'parent' (parent of the sender of the form), or a specific phone number.|no|

Reviewer: Minor typos
'clinic' -> `clinic`
'parent' -> `parent`

> #### Registrations

Reviewer: It would be great to explain the difference between `registrations` and `schedules` @eljhkrr

|`fields`|Descriptive list of form fields. This is not currently used in the app, but can be a helpful annotation.|no|
|`validations`|A set of validations to perform on incoming reports. More information about validation rules can be found [here](app-settings-validations.md).|no|
|`validations.join_responses`|A boolean specifying whether validation messages should be combined into one message.|no|
|`validations.list[]`|An array of validation rules a report should pass to be considered valid.|no|
|`validations.list[].property`|Report field for which this validation rule will be applied.|no|
|`validations.list[].rule`|Validation condition to be applied to the property field. More information about rules can be found [here](app-settings-validations.md#rules).|no|
|`validations.list[].translation_key`|Translation key for the message reply to be sent if a report fails this rule.|no|
|`messages`|An array of automated responses to incoming reports.|no|
|`messages[].translation_key`|Translation key for the message text associated with this event.|no|

> |`messages[].event_type`|An event that will trigger sending of this message. Typical values are: `report_accepted` when the report has been successfully validated and `registration_not_found` when the patient ID supplied in the report doesn't match any patient ID issued by Medic.|no|

Reviewer: Are there other `event_type's`

          "message": [
            {
              "content": "Please remind Jane to visit the health facility for ANC visit this week. Thanks!",
              "locale": "en"
            },
            {
              "content": "Tafadhali mkumbushe Jane ahudhurie kliniki kwa ANC wiki hii. Akishafanya hivyo tujulishe kwa kutuma ripoti ya kuhakiki kliniki ya ANC. Asante!",
              "locale": "sw"
            }
          ],
          "group": 1,
          "offset": "4 weeks",
          "send_day": "monday",
          "send_time": "09:00",
          "recipient": "reporting_unit"
        },
		.
		.
		.
		.
		more message definitions
      ]
    }
	.
	.
	.
	.
	more schedule definitions
]
```

|Setting|Mandatory|Description|
|-------|---------|----------|
|name|yes|A unique string label that is used to identify the schedule. Spaces are allowed.|
|summary|no|Short description of the of the schedule.|
|description|no|A narrative for the schedule.|
|start_from|no|A date field from which exact scheduled message dates will be calculated. If not specified, the reported date will be used instead. A field from the report is usually used to determine when scheduled messages will go out.|

> |messages|yes|This is an array of settings for each message going out.<ul><li>"message": These are the actual messages set to go out in future. To achieve multiple language support, they can be set as an array of content locale pairs as in the example above, or if using version 2.15+, translation strings can be used as the message text.</li><li>"group": An integer used to categorize messages when displayed on the webapp.</li><li>"offset": A time interval from the "start_from" date that defines when the message should be sent. It can be in days or weeks.</li><li>"send_day": Day of the week the message should be sent.</li><li>"send_time": Time of day that the message should be sent in 24 hour format.</li><li>"recipient": Recipient of the message. It can be set to:<br/>'reporting_unit' - sender of the form<br/>'clinic' - clinic that the sender of the form is attached to<br/>'parent' - parent of the sender of the form.</li></ul>|

Reviewer 2: I updated the text, and broken down further so that each row is a (sub)property, as seen here: https://github.com/medic/medic-docs/blob/9ff45ff4b9124fb4ff05a2fc7a67b5c6b783c74f/configuration/developing-community-health-applications.md#task-properties

```suggestion
|`messages`|Array of objects, each containing a message to send out and its properties.|yes|
|`messages[].translation_key`| The translation key of the message to send out. Available in 2.15+.|yes|
|`messages[].messages`| Array of message objects, each with `content` and `locale` properties. From 2.15 on use `translation_key` instead.|no|
|`messages[].group`|Integer identifier to group messages that belong together so that they can be cleared together as a group by future reports. For instance a series of messages announcing a visit, and following up for a missed visit could be grouped together and cleared by a single visit report. |yes|
|`messages[].offset`| Time interval from the `start_from` date for when the message should be sent. It is structured as a string with an integer value followed by a space and the time unit. For instance `8 weeks` or `2 days`. The units available are `seconds`, `minutes`, `hours`, `days`, `weeks`, `months`, `years`, and their singular forms as well. Note that although you can specify `seconds`, the accuracy of the sending time will be determined by delays in the processing the message on the server and on the gateway.|yes|
|`messages[].send_day`| String value of the day of the week on which the message should be sent. For instance, to send a message at the beginning of the week setting it to `"Monday"` will make sure the message goes out on the closest Monday _after_ the `start_date` + `offset`. `|no|
|`messages[].send_time`| Time of day that the message should be sent in 24 hour format.|no|
|`messages[].recipient`| Recipient of the message. It can be set to `reporting_unit` (sender of the form), 'clinic' (clinic that the sender of the form is attached to), 'parent' (parent of the sender of the form), or a specific phone number.|no|
```

#### 2. Set up schedule triggers

Under the registrations key in app_settings, we can setup triggers for scheduled messages. A trigger for the schedule above can be defined as shown below:

```

"registrations": [
{
      "form": "PR",
      "events": [
        {
          "name": "on_create",
          "trigger": "assign_schedule",
          "params": "ANC Visit Reminders",
          "bool_expr": "doc.fields.weeks_lmp"
        }
      ],
      "validations": {},
      "messages": []
    }
]

```

> |Setting|Mandatory|Description|

Reviewer 2: Follow the header structure from earlier comment.

|-------|---------|----------|
|form|yes|Form ID that should trigger the schedule.|

> |events|yes|An array of event object definitions of what should happen when this form is received.<ul><li>'name': Name of the event that has happened. In our case, on_create happens when the form is received.</li><li>'trigger': What should happen after the named event. assign_schedule will assign the schedule named in params to this report.</li><li>'params': Any useful information for the event. In our case, it holds the name of the schedule to be triggered.</li><li>'bool_expr': A logical expression that qualifies execution of the event. In our example above, we're making sure the form has an LMP date.</li></ul>|

Reviewer 2: The base text is good, but would restructure as commented for earlier table. Can you also add more info on the options for each field, and what is available in the `bool_expr`.

|`event[].name`|Name of the event that has happened. The only supported event is `on_create` which happens when a form is received.|yes|
|`event[].trigger`|What should happen after the named event. `assign_schedule` will assign the schedule named in `params` to this report. Similarly `clear_schedule` will permanently clear all messages for a patient that are part of schedules listed in the `params` field. The full set of trigger configuration directives are described [here](https://github.com/medic/medic-docs/blob/master/configuration/transitions.md#triggers).|yes|
|`event[].params`|Any useful information for the event. In our case, it holds the name of the schedule to be triggered.|no|
|`event[].bool_expr`|A JavaScript expression that will be cast to boolean to qualify execution of the event. Leaving blank will default to always true. CouchDB document fields can be accessed using `doc.key.subkey`. Regular expressions can be tested using `pattern.test(value)` e.g. /^[0-9]+$/.test(doc.fields.last_menstrual_period). In our example above, we're making sure the form has an LMP date.|no|

> |`validations`|A set of validations to do for incoming reports. <!-- TODO: Flesh this out-->|no|

Reviewer 2: @eljhkrr can you fill out more info about the `validations` and `messages`?

          "event_type": "registration_not_found",
          "recipient": "reporting_unit"
        }
      ]
    },
```

|property|description|required|
|-------|---------|----------|
|`form`|Form ID of the patient form.|yes|
|`name`|Descriptive name of the form. This is not currently used in the app, but can be a helpful annotation.|no|
|`format`|Guide of how the form can be used. This is not currently used in the app, but can be a helpful annotation.|no|
|`silence_type`|A comma separated list of schedules to mute.|no|
|`silence_for`|Duration from when the report was submitted for which messages should be muted. It is structured as a string with an integer value followed by a space and the time unit. For instance `8 weeks` or `2 days`. The units available are `seconds`, `minutes`, `hours`, `days`, `weeks`, `months`, `years`, and their singular forms as well. When a message is muted all messages belonging to the same group will be muted, even if it falls outside of this time period. See `messages[].group` in _Schedules_ for related info.|no|
|`fields`|Descriptive list of form fields. This is not currently used in the app, but can be a helpful annotation.|no|

> |`validations`|A set of validations to do for incoming reports. <!-- TODO: Flesh this out-->|no|

Reviewer 2: @eljhkrr it would be helpful if you could complete this as well, repeat of the fields from above. Thanks!
